The purpose of this report is to propose a solution to the problem of the Algonquin Student Association website currently lacking proper accessibility infrastructure.  As more and more students enter or consider Algonquin as a post-secondary institution, an increasing number of those students will rely on software such as screen readers to be able to navigate the website.

Several technologies exist for those with disabilities that either enable or assist users with computer usage.  Some of these technologies require no additional support from content producers while others require producers to format content in specific ways.  Most of the adaptations relate to images and video.

Images are incredibly hard for software to parse correctly; an image could depict anything and without context, software has no idea what to look for.  Around the time the internet started to evolve into it's present form, users who had impairments found themselves without a way to consume content.  They would read comments such as "See diagram for details" and be completely without a way of actually getting the information from the hypothetical diagram.  Users needed a feature that would give them descriptive information about images; the Worldwide Web Consortium, a group that publishes standards for web content, published the Web Content Accessibility Guidelines[[@w3cguide]] in 2008 that provide for methods that remedy this situation, among others.

My proposed solution would be to implement the standard in the aforementioned guide on the Algonquin Student Association's website, using techniques specified in the companion document Techniques and Failures for Web Content Accessibility Guidelines[[@w3ctech]].  Specific mention is given to the use of "alt" tags for images along with the elimination of flash-based photo galleries.  The cost of this solution will be minimal as most content changes are simply the addition of a line of text to the source code.  As for the more involved changes, such as the flash-based galleries, there are several packages on the internet which accomplish the desired functionality.  The timeline for the changes is measured in days, at most a week.

This report will be of importance to the Algonquin Student Association so that they may make changes to support accessibility.  Many members of both students and faculty will greatly benefit from not only the use of "alt" tags, but especially the replacement of flash-based galleries with galleries written in HTML.

Excluded from this report are factors related to missing and/or incorrect content.  Missing and/or incorrect content reduces accessibility however I will assume that during the course of the implementation of this solution, missing and/or incorrect content will be replaced or the references removed.